TEXTC Text for assignment
1 Even students who are content to carry out their work largely without supervision
2 should keep their supervisor in touch with what they are doing. In particular, a
3 student should not remain silent for months and then appear in late September with a
4 completed report. If the Exam Board feels that the student's conduct has prevented
5 adequate supervision, it may insist on a searching oral examination or it may refuse
6 to accept the project for examination at all.
7 If the project produces a piece of software, the student will normally be required to
8 give the supervisor a demonstration of the software in action. The Board may require
9 a further demonstration at the examination stage.
10 The supervisor's role is to provide support and encouragement, to direct the student's
11 attention to relevant literature, occasionally to provide technical assistance, to read
12 and comment on the draft report and to give guidance on the standard and amount of
13 work required.
14 This last point can be a source of difficulty between student and supervisor. Students
15 naturally look to the supervisor for reassurance that their project merits an MSc. You
16 must bear in mind that the supervisor can only give you his(her) opinion. Whether a
17 project is of MSc standard is a matter for the Examination Board to decide. It can
18 happen, and occasionally does happen, that the supervisor thinks that a project
19 deserves to pass but the other examiners disagree.
20 Make sure you allow enough time for writing the report. Some supervisors strongly
21 recommend that you write the report as you carry out the project, rather than leaving
22 the write-up until the end. The total time allocated to the report should be about a
23 month for a full-timer, perhaps two or three months for a part-timer. There has to be
24 time for the supervisor to read and comment on it and for the student to make
25 changes (perhaps extensive changes) on the basis of the comments. Bear in mind
26 that your supervisor is supervising several students and cannot be expected to give
27 you full and prompt attention if you all produce your draft reports at the same time.
28 Remember that it is mainly the report that gets examined. An external examiner, for
29 instance, is presented with a pile of project reports, written by people he does not
30 know. If a project produced some software, he might be able to see it running, but
31 often this will be impossible. In most cases, he has to form his judgment purely on
32 the basis of the report.
33 The main purpose of the report is to explain what you did in your project. The reader
34 should be able to see clearly what you set out to do and what you achieved. It should
35 be primarily a descriptive and evaluative assessment of the final project as
36 implemented, rather than a chronological account of how the project developed. It
37 should describe the problems to which you addressed yourself and explain why you
38 tackled them in the way you did. It should include your own assessment of how
39 successful the project was. Your stance should be critical and evaluative. Your
40 project will generally be expected to have achieved its goals, especially if it was
41 relatively unambitious to start with, but a project which falls short – perhaps a system
42 is not fully implemented or perhaps the results are disappointing in some way – can
43 still be acceptable as an MSc project; you can demonstrate your grasp of the topic in
44 the observations you make about the project's shortcomings.
45 We do not insist on a rigid format for project reports; projects vary considerably and
46 the reports naturally reflect this variation. But reports generally run to five or six
47 chapters, plus appendices. There will be a description of the background to the
48 project, to set it in context, perhaps with a brief review of relevant literature. There
49 would usually be a description of the design, possibly but not necessarily using a
50 formal design methodology, and an account of the implementation, focusing on
51 important points that you want the examiners to pay attention to rather than
52 attempting a detailed description of the whole program. (Program documentation is
53 not a substitute for a project report. Documentation is meant to be consulted as and
54 when necessary; a report is meant to be read.) There might be a user manual. There
55 will usually be an account of the testing and, where appropriate, of the user
56 evaluation. There should be a critical evaluation by the student – strong points and
57 weak points, lessons learnt, design decisions which, looking back, would be made
58 differently, ways in which the project could be improved or extended, and so on.
59 There is no stipulated minimum length. In practice, the length of the text, not
60 including program listings and the like in appendices, is generally about 8000 to
61 10000 words, but do not pad out your report to reach this length. The length should
62 be dictated by what you have to say. A much shorter report would be acceptable if
63 the content was good. Length in itself is not a virtue; a 20000 word report would be
64 much too long. Resist the temptation to include general background material – the
65 sort of material you would expect to find in lecture notes or textbooks. The examiners
66 want to know about your project. They have many reports to read in a short period
67 and are not pleased to have their time wasted by waffle.
68 You should assume that the readers of your report will be academics in computer
69 science. If the project consisted of developing an application in an area with which a
70 computer scientist would not necessarily be familiar – such as chemical testing or
71 dealing in stocks and shares – it might be necessary to include some explanatory
72 background. Keep this as short as possible. Remember that the project is intended to
73 show your abilities in computer science.
74 The work that is presented for the examiners' consideration should be your own,
75 expressed in your own words. Plagiarism – that is, the presentation of another
76 person's thoughts or words or designs or programs as though they were your own –
77 is a serious examination offence and can result in a candidate being disqualified from
78 ever gaining the degree. Direct quotations from the work of others (published or
79 unpublished, in print or downloaded from the internet) must always be clearly
80 identified as such by being placed in quotation marks, and a full reference to the
81 source must be provided. A series of short quotations from several different sources,
82 if not clearly identified as such, constitutes plagiarism just as much as an
83 unacknowledged long quotation from a single source. All projects are routinely
84 submitted to a plagiarism detection service - see below under "Submission".
85 These rules apply even to your own work if it was conducted for other purposes. If,
86 for example, you quote from a report you have produced at work or if you draw upon
87 work produced for a previous degree or other qualification, you must make this clear.
88 If you take a program or part of a program from somewhere and incorporate it in your
89 project, you must make it clear in your report that you are not claiming that this is
90 your own work. If your project was developed in the context of some large system or
91 as an extension to previously existing work, it is essential that the reader should be
92 able to see where the other work ends and your work begins.
93 Students are advised to pay attention to the quality of their English. All too often, a
94 project containing good work is marred by a report which is turgid, obscure or simply
95 ungrammatical. This criticism does not apply solely, or even primarily, to foreign
96 students. While the project is meant to provide evidence of a student's ability in
97 Computer Science rather than in English, an examiner cannot be expected to look
98 kindly on a report that is badly written.
99 Students vary in how often they need to see their supervisor; supervisors vary in how
100 often they want to see their students. Something between fortnightly and monthly
101 should suit both sides. Students should bear in mind that supervisors are often
102 absent over the summer vacation and should ensure that their work can still move
103 forward over these periods.